Marx, liberalism \& capitalism

Capitalism - globality and universality, fedualism is local and small.
Capitalism meets peoples desires: arts, ents, along with health and food &tc
Expanding range of human capacities: intricate division of labour, technological feats are material evidence
Characterised by endless dynamism, growing, can not stand still. Pervasivness of ideological commitment to growth, i.e. expanding the limits of expectations beyond historical satisification
Rhetorical framework: `the economy needs' personified, mortal god, reuires sacrifice

Marx: elaborated and predicted an end of capitalism. reasons for being a critic are the obverse? Paradox and tradegy of capitalism
\item posibility of imaging wants, expansion of wants, results in ever increasing inequality between peoples. slums/wealth
\item deskilling of individual humans against the massive increase of collective human skills: this is structured by a division of labour, tendency towards Taylorism. later workers are replaced by machines.
\item transcendence of localism through capitalism, global markets and transport networks. more cosmopolitian? the reality is not this for the majority of workers

Capitalism replaced feudalism. socialism will replace capitalism. Socialism will not negate capitalism, it will build on the benefits of capitalism.

Power of marx's critique is that it is not a moral critique of capitalism. the propelant of capitalism will take us to socialism. nature of capitalism economic crisis collectively produce socialism. A forward looking theory, no nostalgia. Historic inevitability of propulsion. Built on the acheivements of capitalism. Inner contradictions of system is inevitable, Marx is not a prophet. The agency of transformation is the working class, not an inteligensia led program. 

Part of the logic of capitalism is recession `great depression'. capitalism has troughs and peaks of growth and recession.

Development of universal production for the market. enclosure displaces agricultural labourers. peasant > ludite smashing the technology. peasant > worker forming trade unions... at least here the real threat, capital, is identified. trade union solidarity recognises the wealth of networked production, leading to revolution against the exploitation. Striking ends, for a short term, the running of capital. Strikes see wealth in human labour, and that centrality of human labour to capital. Antagonism within capital (strikes) to antagonism against capitalism (international solidarity)

Marx's critique of liberalism / democracy is limited.
Marxism and democracy - why fetishish revolution? why not parliamentary socialism

How might socialism work? Revocable election of delegate sent from communes to Paris commune. A new society with a stanley knife drawing on the example of the Paris Commune.

Liberal ideas touched on in 'On The Jewish Quesion': e.g. rights.
Extrapolate from his writings...
Liberalism is the outcome and expression of bougiouse society. Yet is historically progressive. Liberal equality/freedom is not equality / freedom.

Ralph Milliband: state society in capitalism. democracy contridicting the liberal state idea?
Ken Cokes: parliamentary democracy. why isn't there a parliamentary road to socialism.
UK labour party is never going to advance socialism. Rather it is/was the part of organised labour. Parliamentary route is going to be unsuccessful.